Okay.
So now that we have a basic view store set up, let's try to read from the store state from within a
view component.
So I'm going to open up my main nav component.
And as a reminder, this is the component that has that is logged in data property, which affects the
rendering of a lot of elements of this component, such as the profile image and the sub nav.
And our goal here is to replace this reference with a reference to our View X Store State.
We ultimately want to replace this entirely.
So let's take it step by step.
How can we read from a store?
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to define a new computed property.
This is just so that we have some kind of method in which we can show you the syntax.
And the name of this computed property is totally arbitrary because it's just for the sake of example.
So I'm just going to call it example.
All right.
And right here is where we can access the store.
So you may recall from earlier in the course that when we were talking about view router, we saw how
view router went into every component and added those available properties like dollar sign root and
dollar sign router.
Right.
And that, of course, spares the need for us to import the router into any component file because every
component has those global properties that it can do things with.
Well, view works the exact same way.
It gives every single component in our app access to a property called Dollar Sign Store.
So right here I'm going to console.log directly on the this keyword which references this component
to this specific instance.
I can access dollar sign store.
Now again, the dollar sign is just a regular symbol in JavaScript, but the reason that the View X
development team went with this dollar sign is because it's highly unlikely that you're going to create
your own data property called Dollar Sign Store, and thus it avoids the possibility of naming conflicts.
Right.
It's a lot more common that you would call a data property something like store without a dollar sign.
And so by using dollar sign, it makes it highly unlikely that I'll conflict with anything you have.
But otherwise, the dollar sign is just a regular JavaScript character, no different than an alphabetic
character.
And again, every component has access to this right now.
So there's two things we need to do in order to see this in our browser console.
The first thing is our computed property access to return something.
So for now, I'm just going to return an arbitrary value, let's say return five, for example.
And then in order to get this computed property to run it, we actually have to use it somewhere in
our template.
So how about right here?
Let's say below our sub nav.
I'm just going to use my double curly braces and output, whatever example is.
And the only reason we're doing this again is because we want this to run so we can take a look at our
console.log.
So if I navigate back to my browser and I open up my console here, we're going to see our store.
And if I expand this, you can see it is our complete store object right here.
Every component is going to have access to it via this dot dollar sign store.
What we're seeing right here is the exact same store that we are exporting right here from our index,
such as file.
It's this exact same object.
In fact, we could import this store directly into any component if we wanted to.
But that is a bad practice because each component already has access to this exact object right here
via this property.
All right.
Now, on that store object, we have access to all of those properties and methods that we saw a few
lessons ago.
So, for example, we have access to the commit method.
Right.
We saw that earlier that the commit method is what we use in order to commit a mutation to the store.
We also have access to the actual store state.
So you may recall from when we were writing this code manually with console.log in index that yes.
That on our store we have a property called state and that state is what stores are store state and
we have a property on state called is logged in.
And so that's going to be the actual value that we currently have in our store.
And this design is completely reactive, which means as soon as we commit a mutation and change the
value of a property such as is logged in view X will alert any component that is reading from the store
that its state has changed.
And that's how we're able to extract that global component logic outside of any given component.
If we have five different components that are reading from the is logged in property and the is logged
in property changes the you will tell all five of those components that they need to update because
the stores state has changed.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to remove this console.log and I'm just going to return this thing
right here so we can actually see that true or false directly in our inner output.
So if I navigate here, we're going to see here, here.
Is that false?
That is the starting value of our is logged in property.
It is displaying right here so we can use the store state in order to render something to the screen
or we can use it for some kind of conditional logic or any any kind of similar view concepts that we've
used before for iteration, using V4, for conditionals, using VRF, all of that is completely valid.
The only difference here is we're not reaching into the components own data.
We're reaching out to this global store, this View X store that you can almost think of as this cloud
that is floating around our app that any component can talk to.
All right.
So that's an introduction to how we can work with the dollar sign store property.
We're going to continue chipping away at this idea in the very next lesson.